.\" t
.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii pssh.1
.\"
.TH SSHPROXY 8 "DECEMBER 2007" Linux "User Manuals"

.SH NAME
pscp \- sshproxy secure copy (remote file copy program)

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B  pscp\fR [\fIscp-options\fR] [\fIuser\fR@]\fIsite\fR:\fIremote_file\fR \fIlocal_file\fR

.B  pscp\fR [\fIscp-options\fR] \fIlocal_file\fR [\fIuser\fR@]\fIsite\fR:\fIremote_file\fR
      
.SH DESCRIPTION

.I pscp
(sshproxy secure copy client) is a program to securely copy files from/to
the local machine to/from a remote host, through a special proxy called
\fIsshproxy\fR. It is actually a \fIbash\fR(1) wrapper around the official
\fIscp\fR(1) client.

You can give options to the official \fIscp\fR(1) client by putting them on the
command line.

To give the address of the \fIsshproxy\fR server, you may set some environment
variables, or copy and edit the \fIpscp\fR script. See the section
\fBENVIRONMENT\fR below.

To copy files from/to a remote host, you need to know its symbolic name (see
\fIpssh\fR(1) for details), and put it on the command line as
\fIuser@site\fR. \fIuser\fR is the remote username, and \fIsite\fR is the
symbolic name of the remote host. If \fIuser\fR is not given, a default user
will be chosen by the proxy - this differs from \fIscp\fR(1) which use the
currently logged in user (id -un).

Unlike \fIscp\fR(1), \fIpscp\fR and \fIsshproxyd\fR(8) do not yet support
copies between two remote hosts.

.SH OPTIONS

There are no options used by \fIpscp\fR. See \fIscp\fR(1) for a list of
options.

.SH FILES

.I /usr/bin/pscp
.RS
The wrapper script around \fIscp\fR(1) to copy files through \fIsshproxy\fR.
.RE

.SH ENVIRONMENT

The following environment variables may be set in the user's \fI.bashrc\fR or
equivalent.

.IP SSHPROXY_HOST
The host on which the \fIsshproxyd\fR(8) daemon runs.
Defaults to \fIlocalhost\fR.

.IP SSHPROXY_PORT
The host port on which the \fIsshproxyd\fR(8) daemon runs.
Defaults to \fI2242\fR.

.IP SSHPROXY_USER
The username to authenticate on the \fIsshproxyd\fR(8) daemon.
Defaults to \fI$USER\fR, or \fIadmin\fR if $USER is not set or empty.

.SH DIAGNOSTICS

In case of problem connecting to the \fIsshproxyd\fR(8) server, one can set
the environment variable \fI$verbose\fR to check the generated \fIssh\fR(1)
command line.
 
.SH EXAMPLES

To copy a file to the \fIwebserver\fR remote host:

    pscp ./httpd.conf webmaster@webserver:/etc/apache2/httpd.conf

To copy a file from \fIdb_host\fR as user \fIadmin\fR on the proxy:

    USER=admin pscp root@db_host:/backup/latest.dar /data/backup/db_host/

.SH BUGS

Copies between two remote hosts are not yet supported.

See \fIsshproxyd\fR(8)/BUGS for the current limitations and features of
\fIsshproxy\fR.

.RE
You can report any bug found on the sshproxy mailing list:

.RS
<sshproxy@penguin.fr>

.SH AUTHOR
David Guerizec <david@guerizec.net>

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR pssh (1),
.BR sshproxyd (8),
.BR sshproxy-setup (1),
.BR sshproxy.ini (5),

The sshproxy home page: <\fIhttp://sshproxy-project.org/\fR>

The sshproxy online documentation:
.RS
<\fIhttp://sshproxy-project.org/documentation/\fR>

