.\" t
.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii pssh.1
.\"
.TH SSHPROXY 8 "OCTOBER 2006" Linux "User Manuals"

.SH NAME
pssh \- sshproxy SSH client (remote login program)

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B  pssh [\fIssh-options\fR --] [\fIuser\fR@]\fIsite\fR [\fIremote command\fR]

.B  pssh [\fIssh-options\fR --] [\fIsshproxy-options\fR]
      
.SH DESCRIPTION

.I pssh
(sshproxy client) is a program to logging into a remote machine through a 
special proxy called \fIsshproxy\fR. It is actually a \fIbash\fR(1) wrapper
around the official \fIssh\fR(1) client.

You can give options to the official \fIssh\fR client by putting them on the
beginning of the command line and ending them by the special option '--'. All
remaining options will be passed to the \fIsshproxy\fR server. Note that
options passed before '--' will apply to the connection to the
\fIsshproxyd\fR(8) daemon, not to the remote site.

To give the address of the \fIsshproxy\fR server, you may set some environment
variables, or copy and edit the \fIpssh\fR script. See the section
\fBENVIRONMENT\fR below.

To connect to a remote host, you need to know its symbolic name (see
\fI--list-sites\fR option below), and put it on the command line as
\fIuser@site\fR. \fIuser\fR is the remote username, and \fIsite\fR is the
symbolic name of the remote host. If \fIuser\fR is not given, a default user
will be chosen by the proxy - this differs from \fIssh\fR(1) which use the
currently logged in user (id -un).

To run a single remote command, put the command and its arguments after
\fIuser@site\fR, like you would do with \fIssh\fR(1).

.SH SSHPROXY OPTIONS

NOTE: These options are parsed and handled by the \fIsshproxyd\fR daemon
program, not by \fIpssh\fR itself. So the list of options available to a user
may change in function of the \fIsshproxyd\fR settings and/or loaded plugins.

You may have to set the SSHPROXY_HOST environment variable to be able to
connect to an \fIsshproxyd\fR server.

.B "--help"
.RS
Show a short help message and give the list of plugin enabled options.
.RE

.B "--admin" \fIcmd\fR
.RS
Run \fIcmd\fR as if it where run in the sshproxy console.
.RE

.B "--console"
.RS
Connect to sshproxy and open the administrative console. This is the default
when no option or \fIuser@site\fR is given.
.RE

.B "--list-sites (-l)"
.RS
List all available site the client can logging into.
.RE

.SH FILES

.I /usr/bin/pssh
.RS
The wrapper script around \fIssh\fR(1) to connect to \fIsshproxy\fR.
.RE

.SH ENVIRONMENT

The following environment variables may be set in the user's \fI.bashrc\fR or
equivalent.

.IP SSHPROXY_HOST
The host on which the \fIsshproxyd\fR(8) daemon runs.
Defaults to \fIlocalhost\fR.

.IP SSHPROXY_PORT
The host port on which the \fIsshproxyd\fR(8) daemon runs.
Defaults to \fI2242\fR.

.IP SSHPROXY_USER
The username to authenticate on the \fIsshproxyd\fR(8) daemon.
Defaults to \fI$USER\fR, or \fIadmin\fR if $USER is not set or empty.

.SH DIAGNOSTICS

In case of problem connecting to the \fIsshproxyd\fR(8) server, one can set
the environment variable \fI$verbose\fR to check the generated \fIssh\fR(1)
command line.
 
.SH EXAMPLES

To connect to the \fIsshproxy\fR console as admin:

    USER=admin pssh

To connect to the remote site \fIwebserver\fR as the user \fIwebmaster\fR:

    pssh webmaster@webserver

To restart the \fIapache2\fR(8) server on \fIwebserver\fR:

    pssh webmaster@webserver sudo /etc/init.d/apache2 restart

To have X11 forwarding in a shell session:

    pssh -Y -- david@desktop

To use a specific ssh key:

    pssh -i $HOME/.ssh/sshproxy_identity -- root@db_host

.SH BUGS

The \fIssh\fR(1) -l (login_name) and -p (port) options does not do anything,
since they are overwritten by \fIpssh\fR.

Tunneling and VPN are not yet supported.

See \fIsshproxyd\fR(8)/BUGS for the current limitations and features of
\fIsshproxy\fR.

.RE
You can report any bug found on the sshproxy mailing list:

.RS
<sshproxy@penguin.fr>

.SH AUTHOR
David Guerizec <david@guerizec.net>

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR sshproxyd (8),
.BR pscp (1),
.BR sshproxy-setup (1),
.BR sshproxy.ini (5),

The sshproxy home page: <\fIhttp://penguin.fr/sshproxy/\fR>

The sshproxy online documentation:
.RS
<\fIhttp://penguin.fr/sshproxy/wiki/SshProxy/DocV0.5\fR>
