.\" t
.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii sshproxy-setup.8
.\"
.TH SSHPROXY-SETUP 8 "OCTOBER 2006" Linux "User Manuals"

.SH NAME
sshproxy-setup \- sshproxy configurator

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B  sshproxy-setup\fR [--config-dir \fIcfgdir\fR] [--user \fIuser\fR]
    Display a menu to edit configuration.

.B  sshproxy-setup\fR [--config-dir \fIcfgdir\fR] [--user \fIuser\fR] --add-admin \fIadmin\fR
    Add an administrator to \fIsshproxyd\fR(8) database.

.B  sshproxy-setup\fR [--config-dir \fIcfgdir\fR] [--user \fIuser\fR] --cipher \fIcipher\fR [--keep] [--dry-run]
    Recipher the site database with a new cipher.


.SH DESCRIPTION

.I sshproxy-setup
is a front-end to configure the \fIsshproxyd\fR daemon.

If no other \fIoptions\fR than --config-dir and --user are given,
\fIsshproxy-setup\fR will show a menu allowing the administrator to edit the
\fRsshproxy.ini\fR main configuration file.

.SH OPTIONS

.B "--version"
.RS
Show program's version number and exit.
.RE

.B "--help (-h)"
.RS
Display a short help message.
.RE

.B "--config-dir (-c)"
.RS
Specify a configuration directory where lies the main configuration file
\fIsshproxy.ini\fR and the private DSA private key \fIid_dsa\fR.
Default value is \fI~/.sshproxy\fR.
.RE

.B "--user (-u)"
.RS
Give configuration files ownership to \fIuser\fR.
This option is mandatory if \fIsshproxyd\fR(8) is run as root.
.RE

.B "--add-admin"
.RS
Add a new admin in the database. This works by first adding a new user in the
client database, then it adds a few ACL rules in the ACL database for the new
\fIadmin\fR to be able to connect to the \fIsshproxyd\fR(8) console with
\fBunlimited\fR rights. This is not the way to add users!
.RE

.B "--cipher"
.RS
Recipher the site database with a new cipher engine. Reciphering from blowfish
to blowfish is not supported, so you may want to recipher to base64 first, then to blowfish.
The \fIcipher\fR engine can be one of \fBplain\fR, \fBbase64\fR or
\fBblowfish\fR.
.RE

.B "--keep (-k)" (applies to --cipher only)
.RS
When reciphering to blowfish, don't ask for a passphrase but use the one
already present in \fIsshproxy.ini\fR(5).
.RE

.B "--dry-run (-n)" (applies to --cipher only)
.RS
When reciphering, don't do anything but displays passwords
(old cipher / plain / new cipher). Useful when developping a new cipher engine.
.RE

.SH FILES

.I ~/.sshproxy/sshproxy.ini
.RS
The main configuration file. See \fIsshproxy.ini\fR for further details.
.RE

.SH ENVIRONMENT

.IP SSHPROXY_CONFIG
If non-null the full path to the configuration directory. Equivalent to the
\fB-c\fR option.

.IP INITD_STARTUP
The command to restart the proxy. \fIsshproxy-setup\fR will display this
command at exit to recall the administrator how to restart \fIsshproxyd\fI(8).
Mainly useful when running sshproxy-setup in the postinstall hook of a
distribution package.

.SH BUGS

None known.

.RE
You can report any bug found on the sshproxy mailing list:

.RS
sshproxy@penguin.fr

.SH AUTHOR

David Guerizec <david@guerizec.net>

.SH "SEE ALSO"

.BR sshproxyd (8),
.BR sshproxy.ini (5),
.BR pssh (1),
.BR pscp (1),

The sshproxy home page: <\fIhttp://penguin.fr/sshproxy/\fR>

The sshproxy online documentation:
.RS
<\fIhttp://penguin.fr/sshproxy/wiki/SshProxy/DocV0.5\fR>

